#summary Discuss each Game in context of trying to create a coherent design.

= Introduction =

For each game listed below, your team should review its own game and the next game alphabetically. Your review should focus on how the game can be improved (or simplified) by using the VOOGA (or GTGE) APIs. The comments should generally be constructive in helping us to build a consensus API platform on which to build more complex games. Your review should include the entire game, not just the one class that extends Game.


== Cyberion ==

Our game, Cyberion, is a very simple and fun game in which you control a ship that tries to stay alive by either shooting the enemy ships down or simply avoiding the enemy ships and their "bullets".  There are bonuses you can recieve to increase your firepower to make it easier to shoot the enemy ships.

Our main method (other than update and render) in the main game class is initResources.  This method then calls various other methods which set sprites, collision detection, and event managers.  We created a collision group and manager for each possible collision using Golden T's built-in collision manager.

One thing we can improve on is making the code more dynamic.  For example, we hard-code each image file path.  In general, we have many sections with almost identical code, such as creating a collision manager for each collision type.  Another thing is using more of the Vooga API.  Right now we are only using the Event Manager API.

-Cyberion Team

The keyboard control class that’s part of the player/control systems API in vooga can improve how this game handles interactions between external inputs, specifically key presses, and the objects/players in the game. Currently, the game uses the event and event manager to control the interactions between the keyboard input and the player’s movement and actions, as well as the interactions among different objects in the game, namely the player ship, the enemy ships, and the shots fired by both groups. While this system works for the game mechanics, it takes a lot of work in setting up the foundations for the interactions. In this version of the game, each event is created individually and has two separate entities, an event listener class and an event class. These classes don’t provide any extra functionality except for passing objects and information around as intermediaries. And for each action to take place, the playerShip class much check for which key is pressed and then trigger the corresponding event. For example, the move method in the playerShip class checks for each of the arrowkeys, sets the position of the ship with a +/- 5 offset, and then send the new location information to trigger the playerMove event. This can be done easily by simply updating the position of the player without interacting with the event system at all. This entire algorithm can be simplified by using the keyboard control system, which associates a key to call a specific action in a class. So instead of checking for each event in all the object classes and writing listeners and actions for each interaction that could take place, the keyboard control calls a method corresponding to an action for each of the object, such as firing a bullet or moving the player ship. This way, all the controls can be set up in the main game and all the actual game mechanics can be written in the respective object classes rather than being scattered around the listeners and events. This makes the game much lest complicated and more readable since all the algorithms that have anything to do with an object will be in that object class.

This game can also be improved using the overlay system and the player class in the vooga API. The player class would make it easy to interact with the player’s health and score since each playerSprite created already has a set of functionalities built-in. Currently, this game has no way of keeping track of lives or the score of the game; the game just goes on forever. It would be nice to have displays of the number of lives and the player’s score and maybe even the number of kills somewhere unobtrusive on the game screen to show the state of the game. This can be set up using the overlay system in the vooga API by creating objects to hold such information and updating the information every time the game updates.

The game’s code is generally very readable. However, there are some general comments we would like to make. It’s nice to use constants for numbers like the width and height of the game world and the default spawn location of the player. Also, there’s a lot of repeated code in StarGroup.java. It can be improved by writing a separate method that adds each star with the parameters passed in by function calls.

Overall, it’s a very fun game. Like the explosion sound. What happened to the background music?

-Zombieland

== Doodle Jump ==

Overall we think we did a good job on our game, especially since it was only our first iteration.  The major things we have to fix are more labor intensive like writing longer, more comprehensive, accurate level files rather than serious faults with our code or logic behind the game.  The game graphically looks very good and we incorporated a lot of the iOS version of DoodleJump into our game in a short period of time.

Code-wise, we could definitely use a little more of the class’ APIs but we also didn’t do that bad of a job in that respect initially.  We used the Player API extensively and we also made use of the Overlay and GameState APIs.  In our next iteration we could probably make use of the Resources API as well as maybe the Level API if they take our suggestions and look at the DoodleLevel class in our game and see how we can reconcile our two implementations of levels.  A lot of what determines how we use the APIs in the future is how much better the class make them.  We don’t think we neglected anything that would have made our game a lot better in any respect.  There’s also some code cleanup/commenting/documenting that we will do in our next version.

Game-wise, the one thing we really need to do is make our level files much more robust.  The game at the end of the day is only as good as the levels we play in and right now they’re pretty short and basic.  The game will seem much, much better after we improve our levels.  While we do have some clear improvements we have to make for the next version, our initial version of Doodlejump we think was a success and shows the potential of the vooga game engine. -- (Doodle Jump)

We would review Doodle Jump very similarly to our game (Cyberion).  It is a good game with the same general principals of initialization and collision detection.  Also, just like ours, they need to worry about making the code more dynamic and removing repetitive code and method calls.  They did use more APIs than us, but could still probably incorporate more, especially once they are improved.

-Cyberion Team

== Galaxy Invaders ==

Our game, GalaxyInvaders, initially did not use many of the APIs from VOOGA, as we found it simpler (and faster) to implement their functionalities ourselves. We are going to change this in refactoring, and replace our custom-built Level class, for example, with an extension of the Levels API. The APIs we did use, however, we found to be quite useful, including the Player and Overlay groups’, which fit in with our game pretty well. Clearly, our next step is to replace our code with as much API code as possible, including using the Events API more extensively, and the Resources API to handle all of our images and possibly our level files.

One of the APIs we do not really envision a need for is the Collisions API, as collisions are handled automatically by the GTGE. We, along with most groups, implemented them directly via GoldenT and they worked quite well. While we understand that this API could in theory provide easier functionality, in its current state it seems to require even more code (such as extending Collidable) than the GTGE built-in detection.

Our code is still somewhat rough. The proprietary level system currently has file paths hard-coded in, which is not extensible at all. We had some difficulties with the Overlay API; first, I had to extend OverlayStat to change its color, and second, I wasn’t able to get the OverlayManager working properly so it was impossible to position each Overlay on the screen. This is why there is an OverlayStat for the player score but just a regular drawString() for the player lives. Finally, we need to make greater use of resources. Some of our int variables are constants, but nearly all of our Strings are not, which makes their modification more difficult than it should be. 

--GalaxyInvaders team

Can’t run game.  Even changing the input for level11.txt, etc. generates an error as those files are not in the vooga repository.  This group needs to add the proper resources correctly (level files, images, etc.) and then fix whatever hard coded file names they have in their code.  -- (Doodle Jump)

After changing the hardcoded pathname for level1.txt, level2.txt and level3.txt the game correctly ran on each of our computers. This is a fun game that accurately emulates the classic Galaxy Invaders. The items that added health were unique, it would be a nice addition to have power ups that altered the shots coming from the ship. Also it was nice that as the level increased the difficulty of the aliens and the number of aliens changed. Something other than a black background would be something to add, maybe even different backgrounds for different levels.

In your code it was clever to separate the initialization of enemies and blocks into two different methods. This adds to the readability of the code and if you ever need to add new enemies/blocks it will be a simple fix. We would suggest that you try to utilize Golden T’s PlayField class, and attach each Background, Sprite and SpriteGroup to it so that you can simplify your update and render methods to “playfield.update()/playfield.render()”. Also the moveLeft and moveRight methods should really be moved into the PlayerSprite class for your ship to take full advantage of that API. The StatInt was a good choice for keeping track of your players score. -- (Doodle Jump)

== Grandius ==

Possible ideas to consider:

-remove constructor in main Game class

-remove repetition in updateScreenSprites(): make SpriteGroup and int (number in the sprite list of the level) parameters instead.

-in updateEnemies(), split some of the for loops into separate methods. for the keyevents, make a method that calls in the SpriteGroup and a double to add to thespeed. that way it will take away the repetitive for-loops. have a different method for each arrow key.

-separate loadGrandiusLevel() into different methods

-BlackHole and Missile could extend ItemSprites, by using the act() method whenever they swallow enemies or make a hit and passing the max hits constants into the constructor.

-the game state control is implemented with an integer switch; seems like using the GameState API could simplify this

--GalaxyInvaders team

The game itself is quite simple, though a little difficult to get used to in the beginning.  The movement of the screen relative to the player takes some getting used to, but other than that, it’s a pretty challenging, yet very playable game.  Also, the shopping round in between levels is a fun concept.

The Collisions package in Grandius does not utilize the VOOGA collision API, and it also treats each combination of collision differently using different classes of collisions.  There’s a decent amount of repeated code within each of these collision classes, and though handling the various types of collisions is quite complex, perhaps the different collision classes could have been combined more efficiently.

Grandius makes pretty good use of some of the other API’s available in VOOGA and even creates a custom Level class for Grandius (which almost makes the Level API’s value questionable).  It maybe could have used more of the tools in VOOGA since it only used 4 of the packages (Level, overlay, player, and resource).  The overall look and playability of the game is appealing and fun.
--Grandius team

== Jumper ==
The game play is pretty simple and easy to figure out.  Perhaps a short screen with instructions and game objectives at the beginning would be useful for those not familiar with this type of game.  But that’s not a huge issue since it’s quite simple, and it’s a pretty fun game.  However, the game can get pretty mindless and repetitive after about a minute of playing it.

Jumper uses a few of the VOOGA API’s, but it follows the same trends as some other groups in choosing which API’s to actually use (such as resource and overlay).  It does create a JumperGameState class which is never used (or at least, it’s been commented out).

There are some segments of repeated code.  For instance, the createNewBlocks() method in the main class has a huge if-tree with a lot of lines that look similar.  I think this could have been reduced by a lot.  As mentioned in class, a lot of the hard-coded String values, especially the repeated ones, could have been stored as private constant variables.Another instance of repeated code is the goRight and goLeft methods of DoodleSprite class. Every line in these methods is exactly the same, so these could have been combined into one method, and the parameter passed to this method would decide whether to accelerate the Doodle to the right or to the left.

Even though Block Id’s have been created for each type of block (normal, spring, not broken and jetpack), when writing the DoodleToBlockCollision class, these id’s are not used. Instead, the numbers assigned to these blocks are used as such. Using these hard-coded numbers would be something we want to avoid. We would also like to change these block id’s to be constants as opposed to variables since the id associated with a particular block type will never change.
--Grandius team

== MarioClone ==

The design of our game began as a platformer similar to Mario.  It would have levels that consist of tiles that have different traits.  The player would walk in one dimension and have the ability to jump and crouch as well.  Most enemies would attack the player as he or she progresses through the level by either touching the player from the top, bottom, or side, or by firing a projectile.  The player could kill an enemy by jumping on it.  A boss battle would begin upon the completion of one or more levels.  A boss would be a special type of enemy that requires a different strategy to defeat than merely jumping on top of it.

By the time the game was due, not all of these features were able to be implemented.  Means to create a level's map were created via the TileMap class.  A TileMap consists of a list of Tile objects, each of which contains a position, an image or images, and a behavior.  Tiles are subclasses of Golden T's Sprite class, so they implement Collidable and are, therefore, able to interact with other sprites.  Three different types of Tile were implemented so far, an indestructible tile that does nothing on collisions, a breakable one that disappears after being hit from below by the player, and a mutating one that cycles between images on these upward collisions.  A map can be loaded from a text file that uses different characters as stand-ins for different tile types.

Much of the time spent developing MarioClone went into sorting out collision detection bugs that have still not been resolved.  At some point, it was necessary to use the elements we had already created to yield a playable game.  As we hadn't dealt with issues like adding multiple levels, having levels that scroll (i.e., levels can be larger than one screen), and (most majorly) having collisions with the sides of tiles work, we made a single-screen game in which a player aims to kill enemies as they are generated at some time interval.  Each enemy and the player begin with a health of 100.  Each time the player jumps on an enemy, he or she deals the enemy 50 damage, and each time an enemy runs into a player, the player is dealt 10 damage.  The game is won if no enemies remain.  The player loses if he or she dies.

On its own, this type of game can be very fun if implemented correctly.  Obviously, it is necessary for collisions to work well before the game can function.  Other improvements would be adding health indicators for the player and for the enemies.  Multiple stages can be added to add variety.  Currently, tile behavior does not have an effect on gameplay. Relying of this behavior to complete the game would be a good use of our TileMap infrastructure.

--MarioClone team


When playing MarioClone, I was never really clear about the objective or progression of the game.  It seemed as if this was a cool idea for a game that never truly materialized.

In terms of the actual code, I am curious as to why this group used conventional Playfields for its “menu”, “end”, and “win” fields.  This seems like the perfect scenario for GameStates, because this would allow an easier—and cleaner—transition from state to state.  This change could cut down on a ton of repeated code, particularly in the initResources() method.  Also, this would eliminate the need for a “myGameState” variable as well as the “MAIN_MENU”, “GAME_PLAY”, “GAME_OVER”, and “GAME_WIN” constants, which all serve as messy constants that the State system was designed to eliminate.

I am not sure what the line “distribute = true” means.

All instance variables should consistently use (or not use) the “my” prefix.

It seems a bit sloppy/awkward to have a variable named “playfield” followed by the initialization of three Playfield objects. 

The MarioPlayField extension of PlayField does not seem to have any additional function beyond the loading of tiles.  It seems like this could just be done to a regular playfield in the main game’s update/render methods

I am unclear as to what a TileMap is, although perhaps this is just my own oversight (but some comments might have helped).

There are a bunch of hardcoded values in the render method that would mess everything up if the size of the board changed.

Some javadoc comments before methods and classes might have been helpful. 


== Tower Defense ==

The Tower Defense game has the basic premise of killing the enemies before they finish the path.  Our twist on the game was that you could never win.  The goal was to obtain a high score before your self-esteem was inevitably destroyed.  

We used the ResourcesBeta class from the Resources API to load all of our images from a file at initialization. These images are then accessed at run time by the Overlay, individual Towers, and enemies. Access is simple due to the static nature of the ResourcesBeta class.

The static Event Manager class was just implemented and it allowed simplification of the code and a more reasonable distribution of responsibilities. For instance we eliminated the requirement to pass the Game to every class that had to interact with Sprite Groups. Now classes which add to Sprite Groups simply fire an event and then the Sprite is added to the Sprite Group elsewhere. 

The control of the player is done using two Control subclasses, one which handles keyboard input and one which handles mouse input. This was done in a handful of lines during initialization instead of setting up a complex system of listeners in the update step. Our game does not require handling of simultaneous controls (such as moving and shooting) so the Control class was sufficient for our needs.

The way the PlayerCursor manages what Tower it is building has been overhauled. Towers are now arranged in a better hierarchy. This allows PlayerCursor to find qualities about the subclasses of th current towers using Tower methods instead of reflection which looked at static methods. 


-- Tower Defense Team


I was very impressed with TowerDefense on the initial play-thru. I thought the game was entertaining, engaging, mostly bug-free, and humorous (You’ve got to love defending against Duvall’s incessant attacks against our self-esteem). I did, however encounter a bug with the ranges of some of the towers. I built a tower on the corner, and it only shot at things in the left/upper most portion of its radius, but wouldn’t hit targets to the right (even though they were still in range). In order to make the code more efficient, the group should focus on removing the hard-coding of file names in references of both images and fonts. There is also quite a bit of repetition in many different methods in the code. I think the team could use loops more effectively, as well as pass in certain arguments in order to get the desired result, other than hard coding each situation. Take a look at initOverlays, initPlayer, createPath, createEnemies, and begin. Each of these methods have some form of repeated code that could get refactored. Also, JavaDoc comments would be nice. Other than that, you guys have a very solid game – well done.

In particular, TowerDefense seems to make good use of the Overlay, Player, Resource, and Gamestate VOOGA APIs. However, it seems to ignore most of the others. For example the Level API in particular could be used to improve the complexity and length of the game. 

–Cameron and Andrew (MarioClone) 


== Tron ==

Our game is called TRON in which multiple players try to kill each other by blocking the others’ path. The players can turn around and proceed like in the Snake game, except that they leave walls  behind them wherever they go. A player is dead whenever it hits the wall built by other players or itself, or when it hits the boundary of the game space. The players can either be controlled by human or by a computer.

Our design flow was to implement the game first and then port it to the VOOGA APIs. 
So right now it relies on GTGE to handle collision, player, resources and level. Our game makes use of the Collision Manager that GoldenT provides to handle the collisions, routinely update the player’s positions and determine the end of the game. Our game generates “random” levels with random-numbered, random-sized blocks. A new random level is generated whenever a level is finished (regardless of which player wins). Separate player objects are created for each player. The computer-controlled players implement the AI algorithms that controls their movement.

For the APIs in Vooga, the game only used the userInputEvent in event system to handle user input such as down, up ,right and left. The userInputEvent could be improved by allowing game developer to customize their keys. Using Overlay is also important because the game might allow player to choose whether it is one player or two player game. Since the game didn't use that much outside resouces such as pictures and sounds, it might not be necessary to use resources API.

Our next natural step would be to utilize more API’s to improve the succinctness and functionality of the game. Right now we are only using the event system, and we plan to at least make use of the player system, the level system and the collision manager. We will also improve our AI, probably creating different levels of AI for the computer-controlled player. We would also like to improve the graphics of the game. In the end, if we have time, we would implement a networked game where different human players can play from different computers vi networks. We would also need to add something like overlay or GUI in order for the player to choose game mode such as player vs PC and player vs player. 


--Meng Li,Brent Sodman,Jiaqi Yan Tron Game

The Tron game could be improved by utilizing more API's to accomplish tasks. This would cut down on the amount of code they wrote themselves. For example, a lot of their bonuses could be generated by an Event handler instead of inside their MainGame class. 

The game itself could do with instructions and a menu screen and other game elements. When running the game, it jumps straight into the game. When I first opened the game, I did not know what Tron was and had to discover the game out as I continued to play. I did not know when the game was over or how the game was played. I think the game could be improved signifigantly by adding these features. This is very easily done by using the States API which would allow a pause screen and a menu screen without disturbing the actual game or affecting any code already written.

Also, their Enemy control was good, but could be better if difficulty could be assessed and changed. I think this could be facilitated with use of the Level API. As each level's playfield is random but the difficulty of the opponent could change, Level API would help without cluttering the code. Also, I think the block generation could be improved by making sure that the blocks were not generated right in front of the player or the computer at the beginning of the game. 

The Collision API suits this game as most of the game is based on collision, whether with objects, opponents, or bonuses. There were 3 dedicated classes to specific collisions, yet the handling of the collisions occurred within the actual game. By changing these classes to a Collision manager and making the objects Colliables, the code inside the main class would be much easier to read and adhere to the open/closed principle.

I agree with their implementation without a Resource Manager as there are essentially only 3 objects with limited behavior. In summary, I believe adding use of the Event, Collision, and State API's would greatly benefit this game. -- Tower Defense


== Zombieland ==

Overall the Zombieland game is nicely designed and it has pretty graphics and animations. However right now it is not using any of the API's. Therefore potentially it can integrate the game with more API's. Since this game already has a lot of pictures, it can put them in the resource manager. Also the level manager and player managers can be properly added. Another issue right now is that the zombies come towards the player in all directions, while the player can only shoot at straight up/down/left/right directions, which makes it very hard to actually shoot any zombies coming at the player. Hence it would be nice if the player could be able to turn around in any angle and shoot the zombies. 

--Meng Li,Brent Sodman,Jiaqi Yan

 There are several aspects of the ZombieLand game that can be optimized. First, instead of hardcoding the string name for the filepaths, it would be much easier if the resourceHandler class was used or if .properties files were used to obtain the filepath string associated with the location of image files. Second, we can also use file handlers (especially .properties file) to load specific integer values (i.e. location of the healthbar on the screen) from file. Third, some of the local variables (BufferedImage variables) should be contained inside the initResource() method because they are only used once. Fourth, spriteGroups can be added to the playfield. This can greatly simplify the update method because we can simply call from playfield.update() and playfield.render() and we should be able to take care of sprites.  The events and level packages were also not implemented, and they may be looked into for the refactor.

There are plenty of places where the code can be refactored. To make the initResources method make more sense, it would be useful to extract the separate functions into methods such as initPlayer or initOverlays to show what they are really doing. Also, adding the overlays to the playfield would reduce the need to update each of the overlays separately.

-Zombieland